---
title: Azalea
---


To any potential client of Gentle Birth Care: I was referred to Hilary Kaiser from another well known midwife when I was just finishing my first trimester. I was unhappy with the care that I was receiving with my current OB and had decided that a home birth was an attractive option for me and my husband. Still not completely decided, I scheduled a consultation with Hilary at the start of my 13th week of pregnancy. As this was the first time I had been pregnant, I was concerned that I would not be taken on as a client, but Hilary was very encouraging and made me feel very comfortable with the idea of a homebirth. My husband who was previously skeptical was also much more comfortable after meeting with Hilary. She took the time to answer our questions and gave us a realistic picture of what a homebirth might be like. After some discussion with my husband, we decided that a homebirth was the right choice for us, assuming that my pregnancy remained low-risk. Throughout the duration of my pregnancy, I received top-notch care by both Hilary and Tara. Office appointments were very convenient for me, as Hilary maintains two offices in both the city and the suburbs. I always looked forward to my appointments, as Hilary and the many doulas surrounding her were always very pleasant and fun to interact with. Hilary took my health and the health of my daughter very seriously and always explained all options and alternatives to me, as well as the risks and benefits. When I went into labor, I felt knowledgeable and comfortable with what was to come. I had a difficult labor due to my baby’s posterior positioning and a long prodromal period, but was still optimistic about having a wonderful birth when my baby was ready. The time came for Hilary to make her way over at 4am, but Hilary was cheerful and encouraging even when I woke her up in the middle of the night. She and Tara arrived at my house a short time later, and got me through the toughest part of my labor with a lot of praise and encouragement. My daughter Azalea was born the next morning- a beautiful 9 pound, 5 ounce baby. I was absolutely thrilled with my birth experience, and had a very easy recovery despite my very long and difficult labor. Being home with my husband and my new daughter was the most intimate and perfect environment that I could have imagined. For any future pregnancies, I will most definitely be going to Hilary for my care, and I would recommend Gentle Birth Care for any friend or family member. Sincerely, Alecia Alton 630-605-2870